README.md, before:

Telepresence
============


What is Telepresence?
---------------------

> tel·e·pres·ence /ˈteləˌprezəns/ noun: the use of virtual reality technology, especially for remote control of machinery or for apparent participation in distant events.

Telepresence is a project designed to provide an easy method of communicating with a robot remotely. It can be used either with a direct connection between client and robot, or with both client and robot connecting to a central server (e.g. to bypass firewalls when connecting over the internet).


Building Telepresence
---------------------

Currently, only Linux (and unix-like) operating systems are supported. Telepresence itself has no dependencies, but its input and output modules depend on the various libraries associated with their hardware. These are currently selected with compile-time flags, which are detailed in the build script.

To build telepresenced and the various client and robot binaries, simply run [`build.sh`](build.sh).


Using Telepresence
------------------

While exact usage instructions depend on the individual modules and hardware, the basics remain the same. If using the client/server/robot model, ensure the daemon is running and accessible over the network, then start the client and robot with its network address to begin communication. If using the client/robot model, simply run each with the network address of the other. Once the system is running, the robot should be remotely controllable from the client.


License
-------

Telepresence is released under the GNU General Public License, version 3.0. For more informaion, please see [COPYING](COPYING).


TODO
----

Pull requests welcome! Please try to keep the same code and commit message style.

* Potentially move server, client, and robot functions into independent binaries
* Use a makefile instead of a build script
* Add more modules for different types of input and output
* Test non-dummy output modules
* Add some method of bidirectional streaming for video and audio (e.g. via Youtube or Twitch)

Commit message:

Removed pure virtual telepresence base class and merged it with the Server class, since clients and robots are also servers. Added robot autodetect functionality to client.

README.md, after:

Telepresence
============


What is Telepresence?
---------------------

> tel·e·pres·ence /ˈteləˌprezəns/ noun: the use of virtual reality technology, especially for remote control of machinery or for apparent participation in distant events.

Telepresence is a project designed to provide an easy method of communicating with a robot remotely. It can be used either with a direct connection between client and robot, or with both client and robot connecting to a central server (e.g. to bypass firewalls when connecting over the internet).


Building Telepresence
---------------------

Currently, only Linux (and unix-like) operating systems are supported. Telepresence itself has no dependencies, but its input and output modules depend on the various libraries associated with their hardware. These are currently selected with compile-time flags, which are detailed in the build script.

To build telepresenced and the various client and robot binaries, simply run [`build.sh`](build.sh).


Using Telepresence
------------------

While exact usage instructions depend on the individual modules and hardware, the basics remain the same. If using the client/server/robot model, ensure the daemon is running and accessible over the network, then start the client and robot with its network address to begin communication. If using the client/robot model, either run each with the network address of the other or set the client to autodetect and point the robot to it. Once the system is running, the robot should be remotely controllable from the client.

The server is only intended to echo packets from the client to the robot when both are behind restrictive firewalls, or when neither will have a static IP address or hostname. If using the web client, the client should be run from an accessible network location in server mode (set to autodetect) instead.


License
-------

Telepresence is released under the GNU General Public License, version 3.0. For more informaion, please see [COPYING](COPYING).


TODO
----

Pull requests welcome! Please try to keep the same code and commit message style.

* Potentially move server, client, and robot functions into independent binaries
* Use a makefile instead of a build script
* Add more modules for different types of input and output
* Test non-dummy output modules
* Add some method of bidirectional streaming for video and audio (e.g. via Youtube or Twitch)
